that's the key to winning in the long
run it's how do you Delight your
customers talk to them survey them
figure out what you can do better
improve upon it
I have none other than my guy Neil Patel
on thank you for taking the time out of
your day to interview me absolutely
absolutely it's a pleasure to have you
on thank you first of all let's let's
hop around a little bit where do you see
the market right now because I'm curious
it's being 2023 right it's a lot of AI
going on it's a lot of different things
happening every single day like where do
you see it headed towards
so when I look at the Mark the mark
industry as a whole I think AI is the
biggest shift we surveyed it over 8 000
companies and we found that almost all
of them are investing in AI this year
heavily uh podcasting is a big uh place
for companies are investing as well
they're investing more in performance
less than traditional but yeah with a
lot of Uncertain economic or with with a
lot of
economic uncertainty you know people are
definitely looking for Roi for kind of
marketing and they're looking to
automate as much as possible use AI to
cost
um and get better results and get stuff
done faster gotcha gotcha yeah no that's
amazing because I feel like especially
how the market is everyone's talking
about Chad GPT right you got this cool
little software like input and
everything and all these other details
so I think it's amazing
um but I'm very curious on how it's
really going to evolve over the next few
years is it is it going to expand very
rapidly or is going to be like a little
cluster and it just explodes and
everyone like doesn't know what to do no
I think it'll expand really rapidly and
it'll get better and better I think
we're just in the first inning of all
this stuff and you're gonna see crazy
improvements over the next two three
years gotcha okay cool well ladies y'all
heard from Neil he said it not me it'll
be perfect but uh okay so I do want to
hop back into you first really get into
the business World in terms of like
figuring out the market and trying to
get this traffic like you got a lot of
traffic but we weren't converting right
it was like how did we get the money so
how did you figure out to get the
dollars rolling in what happened what
triggered what clicked for you oh I I
didn't figure out how to get the dollars
in when I was starting off instead I was
just doing consulting for other people
and helping them grow their traffic and
they'll pay me for that traffic okay and
that's how I start off I would just pick
up the phone start calling companies and
be like hey I'll do your marketing for
free if you like the results pay me like
I was willing to take whatever I can get
yeah and uh the strategy ended up
working out over time and kept getting
more referrals and did good work and you
know that's how I started off nice nice
so he was cold calling he did the old
school method called pick up did you
like go on internet type thing look up
some names and like I want to work with
this company I want to work with them or
he would just like phone book one two
three let's go
phone book but without the phone book I
would go on the internet would type in
all the Google terms I know that were
expensive like from an ad perspective
and I'll just call all the people that
were bidding on the ads wow okay okay
see that's the new new form of marketing
most people won't even think they would
take that away right there most people
like I guess Word of Mouth might help me
but he was like no I'm driven I'ma find
the people I'ma put the work in you know
so that's that's commendable too okay so
based on everything that I know about
you as far as my research I know you
have any marketing SEO but I know
everyone's curious because I know a lot
of people know about you so far for
those who don't when it comes to like
scaling online as far as like Google
right everyone's trying to rank on
Google everyone's trying to be the best
number one front page what advice would
you give to that you know business owner
that person just getting started to help
them rank on the top page your first
page so do the basics there's a lot of
tools out there that provide you the
basics so like you can go to
neilpatel.com
SEO Dash analyzer and put in your URL
and I'll tell you everything that you
need to fix from an SEO stand for like
all the basic common stuff uh and it'll
break it down by priority in which
what's the easiest to fix that's going
to have the biggest impact and just go
through that list and fixing you can do
that for free the second thing that I
would actually tell people this is the
more important one is provide the most
value to customers
see whether it's content or whether it's
your product or service whoever provides
the best experience to the user is going
to win in the long run now I'm a big
believer in that Google doesn't try to
rank a website based off of like oh you
have more links in another side you have
better on-page code you try to rank a
site based on what users prefer and want
more than anything else that's the key
to winning in the long run it's how do
you Delight your customers talk to them
survey them figure out what you can do
better improve upon it so right right
there we go see I say the same thing
when I tell my clients and partners I'm
like look gotta put in the work but it's
about adding the value and not just
trying to fluff in keywords here and
there on the page or anything because I
have a I have a branding agency here in
Michigan and we have like one of the top
spots so far but I'm looking to
obviously expand over an entire state of
Michigan and then take over there you go
and go over you know other areas so I'm
thinking big I'm like okay let's let's
figure this out and so like yeah I'm in
the same boat as everyone else is
probably listening like how do I
continue this path and what do I need to
do
um but I appreciate the Insight because
now it allows me to start thinking a
little bit differently
um but where do you see like based on
platform wise
um you think most people should either
spend their time marketing or do you
have recommendations or you think people
should just taste everything and be out
there omnipresent I think you're gonna
have to be take an omnichannel approach
eventually and be on all the platforms
but at the beginning you could do a
little taste approach and whatever taste
the best or whatever in essence produces
the best results but books on that
platform and then eventually expand into
the other platforms because all good
channels get crowded and become
competitive so you have no choice but to
be on all of them but at the beginning
it's too much it takes a lot of time and
money so pick one or two that you think
is going to produce the best results for
you and focus on that first and then
expand so anyway okay perfect so no so
no definite answer it just varies
depending on what that person is going
for obviously their Niche and
Marketplace and what what the Market's
going okay I got you awesome awesome
well look ladies I hope y'all taking
some notes in gentlemen oh what are you
saying so far I know this is uh one of
those episodes where I'm like all right
I know I got to pay attention to
especially with the marketing game so um
yeah okay so now I'm thinking and I like
to hop around so so bear with that's all
right keep going I don't mind yeah I
like to hop around because my mind gets
to turn when we start talking about
marketing I love it I'm like a big nerd
with it I'm like all right let me know
every single thing possible so so
do you have like a recommendation on SEO
when it comes to building out a website
like do you recommend people build on
WordPress do they go to Shopify do they
go to Wix some of the top platforms most
people tend to go to
um any recommendations on that or
yeah morning I I like all platforms
um they're all pretty SEO friendly these
days they've all improved so I'm not
really like picky that you do one or the
other better pick my two favorites uh
WordPress for like content service based
website Shopify for product based Ecom
type sites
okay okay Wix is just not in that
conversation all right nothing wrong
with Wix or Squarespace or some of the
other ones out there but um those are my
main two gosh based on what you've
obviously been through and surveyed okay
makes sense makes sense okay well
WordPress you can do a lot that's just
for free because there's so many plugins
and then Shopify it's pretty good
seamless experience for Ecom right and I
hear that a lot let me build it on and I
get it I'm always like fighting back and
forth with the designers like oh Wick so
Shopify WordPress I'm like calm down it
all works you know I think it's about
the person who uses the platform and
like what's the yes so if you know what
to do with it so true yeah right so
that'd be the biggest thing biggest
takeaway
um but Okay cool so now let's let's go
another layer deep with this and like I
said we're gonna hop around so if I say
if I build out on WordPress right
um and I want to create like a Blog
right
um what's the best way to Inc increase
my traffic or building a block or just
overall to a website if you had to say
so
the one do keyword research you can use
tools like uber suggest or answer the
public put in some keywords within your
space and it'll spit you out like lists
of hundreds if not thousands or
sometimes hundreds and thousands of
keywords that you could be targeting and
two you want to create content around
those keywords the ones that are
relevant to your audience make sure the
content you create is amazing super
thoughtful thorough you can Google for
those terms and see what other people
rank on page one have done when it comes
to their content make sure it's way
better than theirs then three is you
need to promote your content so you
remember how you already just did a
Google search to see whose ranking on
page one and what their content is and
Uber says it is a backlinks opportunity
report you can put like two three of
your competitor URLs that are ranking
and I'll show you all the people that
link to them but don't link to you
not just one but two or three of your
competitors there's a good shot they're
going to link to YouTube
wow that's big and that's Uber suggest
right the platform you know what's funny
I actually I used your platform a couple
times right before I even knew it you
you owned it and I was testing it out
and I'm like who created this because
this is like brilliant like I could
literally go in hit the keyword overview
see what I need to do and then I hit
like related topics and I'm like wait
yeah Niche down I'm like this this
really works so I started truthfully
implementing a lot of the things that
was like being pushed out on the
platform into my website and I did see a
lot of updates through Google I guess
Google loves constant updates new new
things at it so I'm I'm a loyal client
and a customer to say that this
definitely works
um and I definitely appreciate you for
creating that like what what inspired
you to create that though that platform
was it like it was going through
something similar or you heard a lot of
people just saying man how do I figure
this out it was a lot of people saying
how do I figure this out and how do I
figure it out without spending 100 bucks
a month most of the tools out there in
the space were too expensive so I want
to create something that was free and
also have yeah paid versions because
eventually you got to monetize but I
want to create a good free tool people
don't have to upgrade to get value they
can get enough for free and get results
nice nice and that's big that's really
big yeah guys look listen I'm gonna put
all the information Down Below in the
description and also tag Neil too but
definitely go check out their website I
guarantee you you're gonna love it and
look it's one of those tools where it's
like you got to keep in your back pocket
you just it's a must-have I think if
you're in business and marketing trying
to get you know on Google and so on and
so forth so that's a very big one
um and also notice that you have
obviously MP digital right now so if you
don't mind can you tell us more about
that and what that entails
so NP digital is our Ad Agency uh we're
a global Ad Agency I think by the end of
2023 our goal is to be in 20 plus
countries where we have leaders
um we're more countries than that but
there's not always someone leading up
the ship and trying to jump up to new
business from that region
um we're in eight right now US Canada
uh Brazil UK Germany
uh where else India Australia Singapore
we're about to just have Spain and
Portugal so that'll be 10. and then I
know Italy and France are coming next
we're doing quite a bit in Latin America
right now in the interview process and
quite a bit and
um EMA as well as APAC so we're having
fun
clearly having a lot of fun and you guys
are everywhere that's amazing that's
amazing congrats to everything and uh
I'm just gonna throw out there is the
kiddos around I can hear like some toys
I'm like I'm sorry about that I'm like I
wonder if you can hear about the kids no
it's totally fine as for the effect you
know so everybody knows that this is a
real conversation
um but okay awesome so you've been doing
that for a while too with the digital
thing so you work with like big Brands
like Amazon and Viacom and everything
else how do those deals like come about
and how did you feel when they did like
hit your plate was it like overwhelming
or were you like shocked or well so
check this out you got an agency right
so most people don't realize this but
most people think it's like from my SEO
traffic or my content marketing or
social media yeah 76 of our clients come
from employee referrals
client referrals
or Word of Mouth
wow so it's those three that make the
majority of our Revenue
that's to say in the breakdown most
those big Brands came from one of those
three buckets it's if you're in business
long enough you provide amazing work
eventually you'll start working with
bigger and bigger brands the issue is
you got to play the long game a lot of
people don't want to be patient but look
at you you're patient right you're just
like I'm gonna go after my you know the
city I'm in and the state then the
region and then the whole country and
then you're going to go even bigger than
that right you're playing the long game
you're patient that's the way you work
with bigger and bigger Brands just make
sure in between you're producing amazing
results and I know that's what your
focus is as well but um without the
amazing results you're not going to get
the bigger Brands and that's how we get
most of them just do really good for one
company you get referred out more
companies right being consistent that's
the thing it only pays off if you
consistent man I did a whole post about
that the other day and so many people's
like man I need to hear that and I'm
glad you're speaking on it as well I
think it's just nowadays it's kind of
tough because the marketplace you know
you get all this negativity type of
videos out there it's all kind of
rah-rah a lot of fluff but people don't
really explain in-depth or really break
it down in simplistic form like being
consistent it's not too many people and
if so I just get washed up right and
everything else so here you say that and
knowing that you have an agency and I
have one and I'm sure so many other
people listening are thinking about
creating one or doing it it's like a
breath of fresh air it's very refreshing
you know so I love that breakdown and I
appreciate that
yeah no it consistently pays off being
consistent doing something long enough
really adds up and that's what most
people don't do yeah definitely yeah so
I would love to flip it now because I
know some people are probably listening
to this like okay Neil's amazing right
what else can he do what doesn't he do
so I would love to know has there ever
been a time outside of you just starting
off in business where you know you gain
some success things are going great but
all of a sudden you hit a wall
if so what moment was that for you and
how did you like get over it in order to
continue your journey it happens all the
time even when you're not starting
something up you're in something
you know you hit a wall with the economy
or growth or someone's screwing up and
you can't figure out how to solve it
um
you know the first thing to just keep in
mind is when things are going tough keep
in mind there's people out there who
have it tougher than you and when things
are going really well keep in mind
there's people who have it much better
than you so that should keep you
level-headed and hopefully keep your
mind clear
the second thing that you need to keep
in mind is there's other people probably
have faced the same challenge that you
did start doing some research YouTube
Google social media look for other
people who talk about that problem and
how they overcome it learn from other
people's mistakes uh experiences and
that should also help you get a little
bit further the third thing that you
want to do is just experiment talk to
people brainstorm whether it's mentors
or just friends or co-workers brainstorm
and try to find other Solutions and
experiment and run some tests and figure
out all right did this help solve the
problem did it not did it reduce the
results I'm looking for there's a combo
of those three things that really helps
you people overcome issues and
challenges yeah that's beautiful because
I think a lot of people either you know
they run into a wall and I feel as
though you kind of have like two
decisions right to say that you you
persevere right yeah right or you have
to Pivot in some direction and I think
that's the conversation I think a lot of
people have a hard time either depicting
like which which is which or what to do
and I know for me I kind of went through
something similar words like all right I
kept hitting my head on this wall I'm
like okay Dre let's think about this
right do I pivot and find A New Path and
when do I pivot and when do I persevere
so for me I had to break it down like
the only time I think you should
continue to persevere is obviously you
start to see some results right
something's happening something's
clicking but it might not be perfect
it's kind of like the time Edison thing
with the light bulb right he knew
something was happening but it wasn't
right clicking right away but he kept he
kept going and eventually it happened
versus pivoting where you're probably
running two you know the same problem
over and over hit the wall try to go
under it try to go left whatever
um but it's understanding if no results
are happening I think that's what you
need to take a step back and be like
yeah okay let's go left or let's go
right right so
I think that's a big message I think I
hope a lot of people caught that on what
you said as well because I think that's
that's imperative especially in the
business world today so I think that's
huge
um and also because now I'm thinking in
terms of lines like to take a little bit
further you know have you ever faced
that moment where you want to try
something new but you might be a little
hesitant on or a little fearful of
because like it's going good on this
side but you like yeah that looks
Greener over there right that's great
let's try it and have you ever had that
moment it's like I don't know should I
or should I not so the first one going
back to fear you mentioned fear I don't
really have that fear issue because
remember you're going to be a harshest
critic other people don't really care as
much I don't mean that in a bad way it
just means that if you feel it looks
okay most people won't ever know or
watch
um so I don't really have a fear uh
but yes I have that syndrome where the
grass is always green and I want to try
things I used to have that issue a lot
more when I was younger
um last four or five years I've been
really good at just focusing
and just having super sharp laser focus
and that's it and that's done really
well for me in which you know like have
your focus and yes the grass is always
greener on the side but if the business
urine is growing and still doing well
that's cool just keep at it you know you
don't need to hop around and do
something else when you just continually
grow and grow in what you're doing great
example both in the agency space you
have a small agency I have a small
agency I don't mean that in a bad way we
both are small
we could do something else and both do
well at it but there's wpp and Omnicom
and then still a lot of these companies
do like 10 plus billion a year in
Revenue we're like flies compared to
their size right yeah and there's no
reason to hop around because the market
weren't as massive so might as well just
double down on what we're all doing
makes sense it makes sense yeah I feel
the same way there's a lot of
opportunity I don't feel like the
marketplace is necessarily saturated no
matter no matter what vertical you're in
I think it's depending on obviously you
because everyone's different right you
bring something different to the table
clearly like you said we're both in
agencies you probably cater to a certain
you know Niche breaking down as far as
what you provide I do as well as so many
others
um and I think that's the value point
that a lot of people got to lean into
like what's your specialty what's your
superpower right whatever that may be in
order to Excel and I figured like you
obviously figure that out for yourself
you know pretty young and also building
it up to where you are now
um and I think that's that's super dope
and important too so thank you
definitely definitely definitely and so
um when it comes to your business though
uh because you have multiple you had
your hands in multiple pots and so many
different things that you've been into
um how would you measure success in your
business
growth business success issue based on
revenue and profit the more you grow the
better off you do
but you look at the public markets
that's what they evaluate you on growth
it all comes down to revenue and profit
gotcha gotcha have your have your
businesses
take in any sort of I won't say a hit or
any type of challenge over the past two
or three years due to like covid right
um like yeah have you had like brick and
mortar type you know setups and offices
how does that played out for you and how
did you you know get through there was a
challenge when it first came around we
had to lay off a lot of people
um sadly
and we ended up uh growing over time
because a lot of stuff moved online so
that helped us out a little bit uh not
being able to do meetings uh made it
hard just internal and external for a
lot of uh cities or states or whatever
you want to call it we're in lockdown so
we couldn't really have our teams and
people meet up
um the other thing that uh hurt was the
economy when stock market crashed as
hard like 2022 uh it slows down a lot of
growth and it causes a lot of people to
cancel and stuff when their stocks are
down you know 30 40 50
um but you know look there's always
going to be ups and downs it's the life
of entrepreneur it's you know as they
say entrepreneurship's like a roller
coaster there's a lot of ups and downs
and happy moments and sad moments and
scary moments you just gotta roll with
the punches as they come along yeah
that's true that's true and I feel like
it was definitely very different for a
lot of people during covet
um either some people like you say had
to lay off especially if you're a bit
confident it's like it's tough to let go
of those employees or people that work
with you and help build something so
sustainable and then on the flip side of
those people that's like I know for me
in particular
um it was like a great stride I would
say
um business actually started picking up
more during that time just because I
notice a lot of people starting to shift
from obviously working at a job to being
stuck at home and they're like what am I
going to do with all this time I gotta
figure something out and so they started
creating these businesses and these
these uh side hustles if you will and
they're like okay I need to logo I'm
like that's me okay I need a website I'm
like hey I can do that too I need I need
this this I'm like oh this this is
perfect right and I'm like oh man this
is a great moment so I caught my stride
literally I would say the last two or
three years just picking up speed
um but I can see the the views from both
sides and how that can play out and
hearing your side I understand it and
along with so many others
um but I know that you know over time
things will start to transition back
hopefully and start getting back into
the workforce to get to get the people
back in and get those people active so
um yeah it was definitely a time I think
a lot of people felt that tremendously
um yep and so with that because I know
I'm just gonna throw it out there I feel
like you're a very Hands-On type of guy
like you're very intuitive
um and you care about people right
especially if you if you have an agency
you have to right there's something
about it so how did you go about like
fostering that that community that you
have and that company need to scale it
to what it is
yeah uh you just hire other people that
believe in the same culture and the
vision and
um you know the culture fit is just
super super important uh uh yeah and
they just we fostered it by hiring you
know just people who believed in the
vision and the values yeah um at the
beginning it was super important when
your first 10 20 50 100 people and
typically as you grow up more and more
those people try to
help you recruit other people that will
instill the same values and have similar
culture
definitely definitely okay okay that's
big because I'm in the face and I'm sure
other people are I gotta I got a small
team but we're pretty crafty right it's
about a strong five of us right now but
I'm like that's awesome this is the best
five you know this is the best five ever
yeah and so we're building we're having
fun and that's what it's all about and
everyone does their own thing
um and just to hear that I can
understand where people start to
cultivate and say hey I got a friend or
hey are you looking for X Y and Z or
maybe you can bring them on I think
that's super important it just makes for
the community to grow
um I feel like a lot of times though for
most business owners we kind of get into
the mindset of like oh man I need
another another one of me right if I
could just get two three more of me this
would be perfect right but you don't
have to worry about that over time
you'll be able to find people who are
better than you at certain things right
like you you may be the most creative
person and I'm making this up you may
need someone who's more process oriented
and you can find someone who's super
processary to understand agency life
that can help you scale faster or you
may be really good at doing the work but
not selling and you may end up finding
someone who's better at selling than you
or even if you're good at all those
things you can find someone who's like I
only do selling for agencies and I'm
really good at this and I have this big
Rolodex and they can help you scale
faster right so just continue to look
for people who are better than you have
specific things and try to bring them on
as you need them right right definitely
you know that's that's the plan I'm I'm
trying to be the guy like hands off I
don't really like to be like Tom
crunching people because I know how I am
as a creative I'm like just give me the
deadline when does it need to be done
all right it'll be done I promise you so
that's how I like to operate and I kind
of get that free will to all my my
people that work with me
um and so yeah that's that's that's a
good a good indicator coming from you so
um okay okay so now if we hopping back
into the business side of things
um I think one of the many questions I
actually have a little question list
pulled up because I told some people
you'll be coming on and they have about
two or three questions for you so I
chose a couple that I thought would be
cool and uh to act so uh the first one
was uh this came from Jamie and she said
um how do you go about growing your
email subscription list when you don't
have a big audience or a big clientele
base no problem
start creating content on social
start collaborating with other people
and hit them up and start talking about
your website release content on your
website and just have email capture
forms whether it's on socials or like
link trees or whether it is
um you know on your own website and when
you do collaborations guest posts keep
plugging away your site and as people
come to your site you'll start
collecting more emails boom there we go
Jamie I hope that helps that was some
bars in there
take that take that okay so next
question this came from Chris he said
does having a brick and mortar office do
better when ranking on SEO versus having
a virtual office
we haven't seen any difference all right
and let's see
um last one was oh this is a fun one
they said uh what is the best piece of
money advice you ever received
easier to save it than it is to make it
so save as much as possible awesome
awesome perfect perfect well look ladies
and gentlemen I did my part okay y'all
sent the questions in I told you I was
going to ask Neil so hopefully y'all
listened and y'all heard it make sure um
to hit him up too if you have any
additional questions I'm sure he'd love
to talk to as many of you as possible
um but with that Neil
um I definitely am very appreciative for
you hopping on
um I don't want to take up too much time
I know you got stuff to do no worries we
got agencies and stuff to run but it's
been a blast man I appreciate you so
much
um if you want definitely go ahead and
Shout out the best way where people can
find you reach out to you and uh you
know get in contact uh mine are all Emil
Patel is my username so gotcha gotcha
nice simple and sweet perfect perfect
well ladies and gentlemen
um I appreciate you guys for tuning in
and until next time much love peace and
blessings